for all you shutter bugs out there or if
you're an appreciator of fine
photography we've got a fantastic
exhibit to tell you about i'm here at
harbourfront centre and i'm feeling
inspired Patrick McCauley the head of
visual arts is here to tell me about
this new project how are you I'm right
yeah we've got a new exhibition which is
just opening outside which is 72 images
by eight emerging artists now it's
called beyond imagining what am i
imagining wear a matching ontario
greenbelt wow yeah that's a really big
space that's a big topic did you come up
with this mean how do what's the story
behind it came by chance I was at a
meeting and at the ontario greenbelt
about something completely different and
they have a large map painted on their
wall and i was looking at us saying holy
smokes this is huge I thought I
understood the greenbelt but I didn't so
I left the meeting and came back to
hyper front center and approached my
boss William Boyle and I said what about
the greenbelt we were looking for
another idea for this large exhibition
space outside and he said the greenbelt
sounds great write an email approach
them see what they say so I wrote the
email and they said great this is great
idea so that's how it started well it's
great that you know a small flash of
imagination has turned into this huge
full-scale photography now when you say
full-scale and large-scale how big is
big well it's huge it's um extends from
all through our site it's 40 large metal
structures with 80 images that go from
simcoe street all the way to the
promenade and a long lake shore so when
you said big I thought well I've seen
really huge installations in
harbourfront centre but this is really
big it's got to be all outside it's all
outside which is probably the most
important part of this exhibition is
that it is outside anybody can see it
it's a bail or it's visible all times
throughout the day morning through night
you can walk up to you ride your bike
through it it's wonderful is this your
fancy way of saying that it's free it's
for you know how much I love a bargain
now I've come to harbourfront centre
many times and seen many incredible
toronto-based artists these are
beautiful photographs that I'm seeing
just here who are the photographers that
are part of this exhibit oh this is just
one artist and it's her first name is
Rita and I
not pronouncing I apologize her last
name but it's a toronto east west and
gardens and she's walked through West
End gardens are those small little plots
of land and photographed the kind of
everyday everyday garden I love that you
can find beauty anywhere and I think
people are probably going to get an
eye-opening experience to meet the
greenbelt oh yeah a lot of people don't
understand what the greenbelt is and
what we did was we commissioned these
eight artists to go through the
greenbelt and discover it in different
ways so all eight artists were given
different directions to go and it
encompass all the greenbelt so it's
going to be wonderful there will be
people there will be people working the
land it'll be images of the landscape
it's going to be fantastic so as
beautiful as reedus photographs are of
the back gardens throughout the city
aight photographers are really going to
give us a primer on what it means to be
a moving belt you won't it's beyond
imagining I see where the title comes to
so then how did you go about picking the
eight photographers of all the
incredible talent in this city and a
little bit farther afield how did you do
it well it was a process we invited 14
artists to submit works and a written
statement about why they wanted to do
the project so it's really important
that they wanted to do this project they
had to have some kind of commitment or
willingness to go into the greenbelt and
really investigate it so of the 14 that
submitted we chose 8 from that so it's
been brought down to these eight young
artists that really wanted to do this
project and the diversity in terms of
images they take and the subject they
approach is fantastic and was it a
conscious decision to have exterior
photographs of big pieces of nature end
up on big exterior huge kind of scale
freestanding structures to mount them on
these structures came to us last year
from another exhibition called respect
which looked at the boreal court so a
broader view of what is Canada and so we
were looking for another idea to present
and this is the first year that we
actually curated and brought the
exhibition to these structures so we
were looking at something that would be
more directed towards Toronto and
Ontario and so the green belts was a
perfect fit well I definitely
remember seeing the huge images of the
boreal forest when I was coming down
here on a bike so now I'm going to be
seeing a more local aspect of my natural
habitat you will because the last
exhibition of for respect was from one
point of view from a plane going over
top of the landscape here we have people
driving cars and stopping and taking
pictures of people up going to farms and
taking pictures of the animals or
working with the immigrant workers and
the migrant workers or the generational
workers which work the farms that people
as food for Ontario well there's
certainly a lot of food for thought and
when people are going to be outdoors and
seeing these big huge structures what
kind of messages are what kind of ideas
do you want them to come away with what
we want to do is to give them an
understanding what the greenbelt it's
it's really important because like I
said at the beginning I didn't know what
the greenbelt was and this is an
opportunity for us to give an access
point to every Ontarian what the green
belt is and aside from the huge scale of
the greenbelt being news to you what
have you personally learned from seeing
the photographs and selecting them what
I am really thrilled about is just the
amazing kind of change that has been
brought to my attention from just
different images that each artist had
brought to me it's amazing like I have I
couldn't imagine what would have come to
us but it's amazing I guess when you put
an idea out there you never know what
the artists are going to come back when
that's what the intent was we put it out
as Commission and they brought something
that's fantastic so it's a little bit of
a risk a little bit of a surprise and
it's going to be waiting for us outside
and everybody loved it I'm excited to
see it I hope that the weather complies
so that everybody all summer long can go
out and interact its greatest the
largest outdoor art exhibition in canada
the largest one in the country and it's
here in Toronto it is if you needed
another reason for Toronto and
harbourfront centre to be so special
here it is yeah so if you're a
shutterbug yourself if you want to learn
about the art of photography is this
going to inspire young it well it's it's
it's a artists photographing in
different ways from large-format cameras
to digital cameras
and to manipulation of the image it's
one of those great exhibitions where
you'll see a really broad range of
images pretty inspiring indeed stay
tuned because we have a lot more
summertime fun that hopefully will
inspire you this summer when we get back
Patrick I want to go see some things
outside let's go check it out